How to Install IBM XL Pascal for AIX Licensed Program
-----------------------------------------------------

The following sections describe how the XL Pascal for AIX Version 2
Release 1 is packaged, the system requirements for installation,
and procedures for installing the licensed program.

WARNINGS

o   To run XL Pascal for AIX Version 2 Release 1 under Concurrent
    Access, you must have access to a Network Licensing System
    (NetLS) server which contains an active license for the XL
    Pascal for AIX Version 2 Release 1 product.  For more
    information, see "NetLS Requirements" on page 2.

o   Installing XL Pascal for AIX Version 2 Release 1 causes any
    previous version of XL Pascal to be overwritten without any
    warning messages.  You will NOT be able to go back to the
    version of XL Pascal that was previously installed without
    completely re-installing that version.


How the XL Pascal for AIX is Packaged
-------------------------------------

The following list summarizes the XL Pascal for AIX install images:

xlp.cmp                The AIX XL Pascal for AIX

xlp.rte                The XL Pascal runtime environment.  You need
                       this to run programs compiled by the XL
                       Pascal Compiler/6000.

LANG.cmp               The messages and helps for the AIX XL Pascal
                       for AIX, where LANG is one of the AIX
                       national language codes.

LANG.rte               The messages and helps for the XL Pascal
                       runtime environment, where LANG is one of
                       the AIX national language codes.

netls.doc              Contains Network Licensing and IBM
                       Registration Center information.

National language codes are available in several languages.  For
example, U.S. English XL Pascal for AIX messages have the CD-ROM
program name "en_us.cmp".  If you install multiple languages for a
product be sure that you install the preferred (or primary)
language first.

You must install one of these catalogs to see messages and listings
in languages other than English.


Prerequisite Tasks or Conditions
--------------------------------

o   You must log on with root authority.

o   You must have installed the AIX Base Operating System (BOS)
    Runtime, bos.obj.  The level of the AIX operating system
    installed must be at least version 3.2.5 or version 4.1.

o   You must install the xlp.cmp (the XL Pascal compiler) prior to
    or with LANG.cmp.

o   You must install the xlp.rte (the XL Pascal runtime
    environment) prior to or with LANG.rte.

o   No XL Pascal compilations should be in progress.

o   You must have access to a valid XL Pascal password and, if for
    concurrent access, access to a NetLS server.  For more
    information, see "NetLS Requirements."

o   You should have at least 8 MB of disk space available in
    "/usr".


How to Install XL Pascal
------------------------

1.  Insert the CD-ROM, containing XL Pascal installp images into
    the CD-ROM player.

2.  Use the AIX "smit" command to install the code.

NOTES:

1.  The directory on the CD-ROM that contains the install images
    for XL Pascal is

      /usr/cdrom/sws/xlp/installp

2.  For more information about installation in general, refer to
    the AIX Version 3 Installation Guide (SC23-2341) or AIX Version
    4.1 Installation Guide, (SC23-2550).


NetLS Requirements
------------------

To run XL Pascal, you must have purchased a license to use the
product.  You will need to obtain one or more product passwords
from IBM and install them on your NetLS license server(s).

The procedure for obtaining passwords will vary depending on your
country. Instructions for obtaining product passwords are available
by selecting XL Pascal from the CD Showcase product catalog and
clicking on "Ordering information".

You will have to use the "ls_admin" command to add the license
information for XL Pascal to the license database before you can
begin using XL Pascal.  The license information consists of a
vendor ID and password as well as one or more product passwords.
For more information, refer to the "Administering Concurrent Use
Licenses" section in the NetLS Quick Start Guide (SC09-1661), or
the "Adding Passwords to License Servers" section in the Managing
Software Products with the Network License System (SC09-1660).

Instructions for installing NetLS are available by selecting NetLS
from the CD Showcase product catalog and clicking on "Installation
information".


Viewing the XL Pascal Documentation
-----------------------------------

Documentation for XL Pascal is available in InfoExplorer format.

To view the softcopy documentation via InfoExplorer, you may run
the /usr/cdrom/sws/xlp/info/setup shell script while logged on with
root authority.  This will create a set of links from the CD-ROM to
the /usr/lpp/info/data directory.  After the links are set up, you
can start an InfoExplorer session to display the XL Pascal
documentation by issuing the following command:

  info -l xlp

NOTE:  The CD-ROM must be available and mounted on the /usr/cdrom/sws
directory.

To view InfoExplorer graphics, it may be necessary to resize and
redraw some graphic images before they will display properly.  Here
are the steps to follow:

1.  Try resizing the InfoExplorer Graphic Figure Window.  This may
    be the only action required to display the graphics properly.

2.  Select the 1:1 or 1:2 scale listed in the lower, left corner of
    the Graphic Figure Window.  After making your selection, click
    on the Redraw button in the lower, right-hand corner.

NOTE:  InfoExplorer sessions occasionally terminate after selecting
to view a graphic image.  If this occurs, restart the InfoExplorer
session.


Printing the XL Pascal Documentation
------------------------------------

Documentation for XL Pascal is also available in PostScript format.

Instructions for printing the PostScript manuals are available by
selecting XL Pascal from the CD Showcase product catalog and
clicking on "Product manuals".

